*(NOTE: This is for my Empire's In Space (EiS) universe)*

The EiS universe was created by kandra. Before it existed, there existed called the "**Kandra-Ultimata**". The Kandra-Ultimata split itself and started to create a bunch of universes, including the EiS universe.

Everything in the EiS universe is made of kandra, from galaxies, stars, planets, even life and even physics. Everything is basically kandra.

**Kandra Forces** are the force that controls/governs aspect of the universe. It's basically kandra. It's divided into many forces, like gravity, time, speed, life and even hyper specific ones like a phone screen, or a human arm. They are all actually the Kandra-Ultimata force (or just kandra) in "disguise", they just cover a narrow or specific part of kandra. Like how biology is basically chemistry in "disguise", it only studies a specific part of chemistry, that being life.

Naming a kandra force is quite simple, just put what the kandra force controls after kandra, so kandra-gravitarional force controls gravity, kandra-time force controls time, kandra-acceleration force controls acceleration, kandra-material force controls materials, kandra-phone screen force controls phone screens, etc.

Kandra forces that cover specific aspects of a broader kandra force are called **"Kandra Sub Forces**" or just **"Sub Forces**". Technically, everything is a sub force as everything is from kandra-ultimata. Sub forces can be nested into other sub forces, for example, the kandra-human force is a sub force of the kandra-biology force, which is a sub force of the kandra-chemistry force, which is a sub force of the kandra-mass force which is a sub force of the kandra-ultimata force. Kandra forces which are just sub forces of the kandra-ultimata force, and not sub forces of other kandra forces are called "**Kandra Main Forces**" or just "**Main Forces**". Kandra forces of abstract things does not exist, it must me somewhat physical or real. These are however all labels, classification, meant for easier understanding and use. Sub forces, main forces are all labels.

Before kandra made universes, different forces existed but kandra is the strongest force of them all, if another reality enters inside a kandra universe, it conforms and becomes an extension of kandra, or follows the rule of kandra, and if kandra enters another universe's reality which isn't kandra, the universe confront to whatever kandra wants.

Kandra was first discovered by the space nation of "**Combine**". With this discovery of kandra, the Combine became the most powerful nation in EiS before they collapsed. the word "kandra" was termed by the Combine, the word "kandra" is the name they gave this force.

*(Fun Fact: I named kandra after the hindi word chandra. Removed the h, became candra, made the pronounciation more obvious by replacing the c with a k, and that's how kandra was made. The Combine didn't go through this process. The word just came into mind)*

Kandra and other forces follow something called "**Enfe Gahivno**" (/ɛn.ɸe ɣa.xiβ.nɔ/) which mean "Forever (Enfe) Growing (Gahivno)" in Combine. This basically means kandra infinitely makes universes but the universes are finite in number, theoretically quantifiable but it grows infinitely. Other realities also follow this, tho not all realities, as some just grow to a finite number. There is no infinite universes of a reality, they must be infinity growing, for them to be "infinite", not infinite in quantity

# Afterlife

When the EiS universe was created, kandra created two "**semi-worlds**", semi-worlds are a different universe or a plane of existence inside one universe, in EiS case, inlife and afterlife. In inlife, the living exist, in the afterlife the "dead" exist. Every life has a thing called a "**Kandra Soul**" or simply "**Soul**". Even robots with sentience also has a kandra soul (we'll get to that later).

Every kandra soul, after their body dies, will go to afterlife. But for someone to actually die, they need meet the Death Qualifying Factor (DQF for short), this can vary for species, but generally, for someone to meet the DQF, the brain, heart and lungs need to completely stop working, the soul is contained in these organs (splited into these 3 organs, after they stop working, the soul remerges itself) and get teleported to the afterlife.

The kandra soul has the same appearance and physiology as their body, and this is carried into the afterlife. The soul's appearance and physiology changes as the body changes, for example, a kandra soul of a human looks like that exact person with their (in this case, human) physiology. A kandra soul however can change their appearance and physiology by their **will** (the desire to do things), but they need to have a strong enough will. Willpower/intensity of a desire to do something (like changing your soul's appearance) is measured in **wp** (for example: 100 wp for something is decently strong). You can use willpower to change anything with your soul, e.g, appearance, anatomy, physiology, forcing other souls out.

All kandra souls have a will. There is a thing called the "**General Will**", it is a measurement unit (denoted by gw) that measures the will/desire capacity of a kandra soul to do multiple things (for example: a kandra soul with 100 gw has a decent capacity for broad sets of things), so a bacteria has a very low general will (because it only eats, infect and other bacterial things) while a human has a very high general will (because they can have desires to do multiple things). They are respectively called weak willed kandra souls and strong willed kandra souls. Kandra souls can use their wp to force out diseases or other souls out of them as they are interfering with their soul's physiology and anatomy and every soul with enough wp can expel unwanted souls out of them. Diseases before someone dies doesn't get carried unless the kandra soul also has those diseases inside them, which is never the case, the only way a kandra soul gets a disease is from the afterlife. This is how most kandra souls dealt with disease before advanced technology.

Kandra souls can easily teleport from the afterlife and inlife how many times they want (note that unlike other media where it's shown ghosts can fly and phase through walls, kandra souls obey the physics of the inlife world, so gravity affects them and they can't phase through walls, unless they learn a kandra force that can make them phase through walls and/or fly). Kandra souls have something called an "**Inlife Interaction Power**" (or IIP for short). IIP is a measurement unit that measures a kandra souls power to interact with inlife without possessing a body. Most kandra souls have very low IIP, especially new kandra souls, to get more IIP, kandra souls need training to achieve it. The IIP has a theoretical limit of 100, where someone with 100 IIP can fully interact with the inlife world, even being able to be seen by others, basically another person in inlife but "dead". 100 IIP is incredibly hard to achieve, practically impossible

Kandra souls can also possess a body to interact with the inlife world, but a kandra soul can't just possess anything it wants. "**Possession Power Index**" (PPI for short) is a measurement unit which measures the power of a kandra soul to possess a body, and again, new kandra souls have very low PPI, and needs training for more PPI (the theoretical limit for PPI is also 100). when a kandra soul with PPI possesses a living body that already has a soul, they can overpower the soul and control the body with high enough PPI, but the original soul can fight against the forgein soul and can win if the forgein soul has a low enough PPI. There are two types of kandra souls, attached kandra souls and detached kandra souls; Attached kandra souls are attached to a body while detached souls aren't attached or possess any body, possessing can make a detached souls an attached soul. Most attached souls are living and all detached souls are in the afterlife.

The afterlife is a replica of the inlife universe. Meaning, the afterlife has multiple planets, like Earth. It is basically the inlife world. But nobody can die here since kandra souls are unkillable. Tho, the afterlife is not an exact replica as it doesn't change because the inlife changes. The afterlife was created as soon as the EiS universe was made. So it's the replica of the inlife world **miliseconds** after the creation of the EiS universe. The afterlife then did it's own thing. But, some, galaxies, stars, planets and other celestial objects are like copies of its inlife counterpart. This isn't because the afterlife is copying the inlife world but more because the properties of the afterlife caused this, since the properties are a replica of the inlife's as it was created, and those similar properties led to similar results.

When a soul gets transported into the afterlife. They are teleported into the exact position they died, so if someone died in earth, they'd be in that exact location in afterlife's earth, but if your exact location had mass, you'll be moved slightly.

There is inherently nothing in the afterlife that punishes the bad and rewards the good like with hell and heaven. The kindest soul and the most cruel person will end up in the same afterlife; However, the people in the afterlife has made rehabilitation centers to rehabitate the "cruel" or "evil" people.

Kandra souls can be created both in the inlife and afterlife. When a species reproduces, a kandra soul is made and is assigned to the produced body.

Life is defined as something having a kandra soul. If something has a kandra soul, it's life, regardless of what body it possesses

I want to note that Souls are a physical thing, like light, you can't touch it but it's there, you can't touch a soul (unless 100 IIP is reached) but it's there. Souls are not spiritual (spiritual doesn't exist in EiS), they are physical

# Manipulating Kandra Forces

Kandra forces can be manipulated. Kandra Forces can be manipulated by every single life form, which is connected to kandra or made by kandra, and everything in the EiS universe is made by kandra so everything can manipulate kandra in theory, even non-living things.

Practically however, only sentient life with high intelligence or just highly intelligent life is actually able to manipulate kandra.

To even manipulate kandra, a life has to have good stability with a kandra force they wanna manipulate. Since everything in EiS is kandra or is connected to kandra, they can have stability with a kandra force. Having stability with a kandra force means having a connection to that kandra force, having stability with it. 

To gain stability with a kandra force you need to focus on that kandra force, you'll feel a weird "feeling" and you'll know that's the kandra force (This feeling is not fully describable and needs to be experienced. You can't explain sight to a person who has never seen in their life. This feeling is called "kanfel" or "kanfelling", which is a combination of "kandra" + "feel"). You'll usually feel this feeling very faintly, meaning your stability with that kandra force is weak or unstable. And now to actually gain stability with a kandra force, you'll have to focus more on that kandra force, diverting your focus, getting distracted, won't weaken your stability with the kandra force by much, as once stability is established, it won't just disappear if you diverge your focus, tho unfocusing can make you not feel that force, refocusing can make you re-feel that force like you were feeling it when focused. You don't always "feel" a kandra force because your brain filters it out.

Focusing gains stability because brains have the capacity to "feel" these forces more, which increases stability. So because of human (and alien) physiology, humans (and alien) species can manipulate kandra forces. Visualization can help a lot in gaining stability.

When gotten good stability of a kandra force, you can try to manipulate it, you can try to push it (like trying to move your arm) and if you have good enough stability, you will be able to manipulate it into what you want it to do, so congrats! You successfully manipulated a kandra force! But, manipulating kandra forces comes with a cost, energy and stability, energy is obvious, for you to manipulate it, you'll of course need to use some of your energy to manipulate, you lose stability because manipulating a kandra force means you are actively trying to go against how the kandra force works, which reduces stability, fortunately, lost stability can be gained, like how you gain them.

However, it isn't easy to use a kandra force. The more the kandra force (like gravity), the harder it is to use them, the more specific the kandra force is (like a phone screen), the easier it is. This is because broader kandra forces require more energy than specific kandra forces, tho it really depends on the task/how much you're planning to manipulate. Changing a phone screen is way smaller in impact (hence less energy consumption) than making a gravity change in a region (hence more energy consumption). Think of it like this, it's easier to program a calculator than to program an AAA video game.

Most people are born with a "greater connection with a kandra force", this is called your **"Kandra Affinity"** or just **"Affinity"**. Kandra affinity means you're born with a certain number of stability (usually in stb-kstb, but can be lower or higher. See the Yiben Zelen Garop Letda section to see what a stb is) in a kandra force and can gain stability more easily and faster in that kandra force and lose less energy in that kandra force; This however doesn't mean that you can't gain stability other kandra forces that isn't your kandra affinity, you can gain stability with other kandra forces normally. If you have affinity with the kandra-gravitarional force, you can gain stability with the kandra-gravitarional force much faster then someone who doesn't have affinity with it. A person can have multiple affinities with multiple kandra forces. Kandra Affinity can also be decided by your species or sub-species aswell, humans have an affinity with the kandra-temperature force. Most people usually have two affinities or one affinity, one affinity with your species, called the **"Species Kandra Affinity"** or just **"Species Affinity"** and their individual kandra affinity, called the **"Individual Kandra Affinity"** or just **"Individual Affinity"**, people with one affinity have either their Species Affinity or Individual Affinity, however, people can be born with 0 kandra affinity aswell. Affinity is decided by kandra, you can't choose what affinity you can have with a kandra force unless you use the kandra-affinity force, you can use the kandra-affinity force to give yourself or others kandra affinities. Kandra Affinities are usually broader kandra forces, specific and hyper-specific kandra force affinities are rare, main kandra force affinities are more common than hyper-specific ones. Think of Kandra Affinities as genetic predisposition but for kandra forces, you inherit them from birth but it's not destiny, you can never use your affinity kandra force if you don't want to and can use another kandra forces if you want to. Individual Affinities are not hereditary, they are random. **Kandra Affinity Level** or just **Affinity Level** decides how much you stability you get from brith, how much your affinity helps to gain stability and how much your affinity helps to reduce energy consumption. Affinity Levels are measured in the metric system, the base is al (Affinity Levels). So if you have like 300 al in a kandra force, you get 300 stb from birth, get stability ×300 more and energy consumption is reduced by ×300 with that kandra force. If you have 30 kal, you get 30 kstb, get stability ×30000 more and energy consumption is reduced by ×30000. Affinity Levels are also assigned by kandra or by using the kandra-affinty force. It is theoretically possible to have negative affinity but it's practically impossible, it's either caused by a kandra glitch or artificially imbued by using the kandra-affinty force. Having negative affinity means your energy consumption of that kandra force is increased and stability gaining is decreased.

The more stability you have over a force, the less energy you lose. This is called the "**Yibem Zelen, Garop Letda**" (/ji.bem ze.len ɣa.ɹop lɛt.da/) which means "More (Yibem) Stability (Zelen), Less (Garop) Energy (Letda)". This has a formula: $L = \frac{E}{(S - D)}$ (L = E ÷ (S - D)). L represent energy lost, E represent energy required to manipulate the kandra force, S represents your stability with the said kandra force, D represents distance, because distance also plays a role, the lesser the distance, the lesser energy used (energy is measured in joules and stability and distance is measured in the metric system, kilostability (kstb) and kilometers (km), stability (stb) and meters (m), centistability (cstb) and centimeter (cm), milistability (mstb) and milimeter (mm). 1 joule = 1 stb. 1 stb = 1 m. So, if you do manipulate something that requires 10 joules and you have 5 stb with the kandra force and the distance from that thing is 3 mm, then you actually lose 2.0012 (rounded) joules of energy, and if you had 5kstb, you'd lose 0.002 (rounded) joules of energy. The more properties you try to manipulate, the more energy is needed. You can't extend your distance if your stability is lower than the distance, S < D is not possible as the further you make the distance, the weaker the "connection" feels (like more fatigued to move your arm) relative to your stability reserve, you'll stop feeling the manipulation after you try to extend the distance further than your stability, so manipulation won't work properly, this works the same if S = D (which is S - D = 0), you stop feeling the manipulation and manipulation won't work properly.

That formula only accounts if you have 0 affinity with a kandra force. If you, let's say, have 10 al with the kandra force, the formula becomes: $L = \dfrac{ \left( \frac{E}{S - D} \right) }{A}$ (L = (E ÷ (S - D)) ÷ A). Here, E, S and D mean the same thing, but A means "Affinity Level". So with our previous example (2.0012), E ÷ (S - D) = 2.0012. So now he have to divide 2.0012 with A, which would be 10 al in this case. The answer will become 0.20012 J

If your affinity with the kandra force is negative (somehow), it becomes: $L = \dfrac{\left| A \right|}{ \left( \frac{E}{S - D} \right) }$ (L = |A| ÷ (E ÷ (S - D))). Let's use our previous example of 2.0012 and that say A is -10. |-10| = 10. 10 ÷ 2.0012 = 4.9970 J (rounded). and as you can see 4.9970 J is bigger than 2.0012 J, increasing energy consumption

So to Recap:

With 0 al: $L = \frac{E}{(S - D)}$ (L = E ÷ (S - D))
With [positive] al: $L = \dfrac{ \left( \frac{E}{S - D} \right) }{A}$ (L = (E ÷ (S - D)) ÷ A)
With [negative] al: $L = \dfrac{\left| A \right|}{ \left( \frac{E}{S - D} \right) }$ (L = |A| ÷ (E ÷ (S - D)))

The amount of stability you lost is also 2.0012 stb of stability. This is called "**Joltem Prapamo Iosilif**" (/dʒol.tɛm pɹa.pa.mo io.si.liɸ/) which means "Equal (Joltem) Properties (Prapamo) Used (Iosilif)". This states that you lose the equal amount of stability as you lose energy when manipulating a kandra force. So, if you lose 10 joules of energy, you use 10 stb.

If you wanna manipulate the kandra force you're stabilizing efficiently, you need to first learn how that thing works, like if you wanna use the kandra-gravitational force, you need to learn how gravity works, otherwise, when you feel the kandra force, you'll be confused by some of the feeling, because those feelings cover a certain aspect of that force, and if you don't know it, you can't use it properly; You don't need full understanding but a good understanding. Also, better understanding of a kandra force can also make you gain stability with the force faster, the better the understanding, the faster stability is gained. If you theoretically have full understanding of a kandra force, gaining stability can get very fast

There is a formula for gaining stability aswell, it's: G = T × U. G here is "Stability Gained" (measured in stb), T is time (usually in seconds) and U is "Understanding Level" (measured in ul). ul is a measurement unit to measure how much you understand a kandra force, it uses the metric system. Let's say you focus on a kandra force for 1,800s (30 minutes) and your understanding of that kandra force is 90 ul. Then G will be 162,000 stb, or 162 kstb. Your ul = your efficiency on using the kandra force. So you can reserve stability for a kandra force but to actually use it, you need better understanding, or you'll make a mess. So if you gain like 100 kstb in the kandra-gravitarional force, you still need a good ul to use it properly (otherwise you'll waste unnecessary energy). With more broader forces, energy required increases, so stability gaining and energy (and stability) consumption balances out.

If you have affinity with the kandra force, the formula becomes: G = T × U × A. Where G and T mean the same and A means "Affinity Level", same from the energy loss formula. Let's take out previous example of 162,000 stb, let's say, our A with the kandra force is 20 al, so G becomes 3,240,000 stb or 3.24 Mstb.

If affinity is (somehow) negative, formula becomes: G = $\frac{T \times D}{\left| A \right|}$ (G = T × D ÷ |A|). Let's take our previous example, T × D = 162,000. A is -20 al. |-20| = 20. Now G becomes 8,100, stb, or 8.1 kstb, and 8.1 kstb < 162 kstb.

To recap:

If 0 al: G = T × D
If [positive] al: G = T × D × A
If [negative] al: G = $\frac{T \times D}{\left| A \right|}$ (G = T × D ÷ |A|)

When you have stability with a kandra force you're also getting stability with other kandra forces aswell, this is called **"Zelen Jastem"** (/ze.len dʒast.ɛm/), which translates to "Stability (Zelen) Linking (Linking)". Let's use the kandra-biology as an example, you learn the kandra-biology force, you can already pretty much control every kandra sub force of the kandra biology force (given that you have a good enough knowledge of that force), so you've basically gained stability with all of kandra-biology's sub forces; but you also gained some stability with kandra forces higher (more broader) than the kandra-biology force. Not only do you get stability with kandra forces higher than kandra-biology force, but you gain stability with all kandra forces. However, you don't gain the exact amount of stability with the higher kandra forces, you get a lower amount of stability (while stability with kandra sub forces of the kandra-biology force is the same amount). The more related that kandra force is to the kandra-biology force, the higher the stability you have with that kandra force, and the more distantly related that kandra force is to the kandra-biology force, the less amount of stability you have with that force, so you might have some stability with the kandra-weight force, but it will be very low, this is called **"Zelen Jastem Yavachol"** (/ze.len dʒast.ɛm ja.va.tʃɔl/), which translates to "Stability (Zelen) Linking (Jastem) Relation (Yavachol)". Your stability with the kandra force that is 1-step higher than the kandra biology force is $\frac{S}{10^{n}}$ (S ÷ 10^n), where S is your stability force with the kandra-biology force and n is how many steps higher the kandra force is from the kandra-biology force. If a kandra force is 2-steps higher then n is 2 and so the 10 becomes 100 and so on. If a kandra force is in a different main force (or the main force itself), your stability with that kandra force will be extremely low, practically 0

"**Kandra Requirement Force**" or just "**Requirment Force**" is a kandra force that is required to use, to fully use the potential of another kandra force. Every kandra force can be a requirement force, depending on the user. They aren't usually as practiced as the kandra force they are mainly practicing, as they are just used to use the full potential of their main kandra force (this isn't talking about the kandra main forces, but the forces the user is mainly practicing). For example: use kandra-time force as a requirement force to stop the time of your body to go insanely fast with the kandra-acceleration force, as to not rip your body apart from the velocity. And again, this is just a label.

Kandra souls can also manipulate kandra force, with the same method

When someone tries to manipulate the kandra force, it is usually temporary, but permanent changes can be done, but it requires more energy and stability, but it wouldn't constantly drain energy and stability with a temporal change. Permanent changes are more common with creation and destruction focused forces like the kandra-material force.

Temporary and Permanent changes have their own formulas (these are the ones most commonly used in daily life when manipulating kandra)

$\sqrt{TL} = \left[ \frac{E}{(S - D)} \right] \times T$ (√TL = [E ÷ (S - D)] × T). This formula is for calculating energy lost from temporary kandra manipulation. The formula is exactly like previous formula for calculating energy lost with a few changes. TL means "Temporary Energy Lost" (literally the same thing as L, just for temporary kandra manipulation) and another variable, T, which stands for time, which is measured in seconds, minutes, hours, but seconds is the most commonly used method. It's also being square rooted because Temporary manipulation requires less energy than permanent manipulation, precisely about a square root.

Example: let's say, our E is 30 J, S is 45 kstb, D is 400 m and T is 90s, then our TL will be 0.0605 J (rounded) and square root TL, then the final answer is 0.246 J (rounded)

If [positive] al: $\sqrt{TL} = \left[ \dfrac{\left( \frac{E}{(S - D)} \right)}{A} \right] \times T$ (√TL = [(E ÷ (S - D)) ÷ A] × T). So, with our previous example, let's say, A is 10 al. The  TL becomes 0.0778 J (rounded), which is less than 0.246 J

If [negative] al: $\sqrt{TL} = \left[ \dfrac{\left| A \right|}{\left( \frac{E}{(S - D)} \right)} \right] \times T$ (√TL = [|A| ÷ (E ÷ (S - D))] × T). So, with our previous example, let's say, A is -10 al. |-10| = 10. TL will be 1,156.719 J or 1.156 kJ (rounded). 

$PL = \frac{E \times 500}{(S - D)}$ (PL = E × 500 ÷ (S - D)). This is the formula for permanent kandra manipulation. This is basically the same formula as the energy lost formula with just an added "× 500" because for permanent kandra manipulation, energy required is ×500s temporary kandra manipulation. PL here represents "Permanent Energy Lost". With the previous example, E is 30 J, S is 45 kstb, D is 400 m, than PL is 0.3363 J (rounded)

If [positive] al: $PL = \dfrac{\left( \frac{E \times 500}{(S - D)} \right)}{A}$ (PL = (E × 500 ÷ (S - D)) ÷ A). Let's use our previous example, and say A is 10 al. PL becomes 0.03363 J (rounded).

if [negative] al: $PL = \dfrac{\left| A \right|}{\left( \frac{E \times 500}{(S - D)} \right)}$ (PL = |A| ÷ (E × 500 ÷ (S - D))). Let's use our previous example, and say A is -10. PL becomes 29.7333 J (rounded). 29.7333 > 0.03363

Most life can't die from over using a kandra force as the brain will make you go unconscious if you use too much energy

When you gain stability, your soul gains stability, and when you manipulate a kandra force, your soul manipulates it, this doesn't mean the soul acts as a medium for you to access the kandra force (it's actually the brain that acts as a medium), it's just your soul gains stability and does the kandra manipulation so when you die and got to the afterlife, your existing stability with the force will get carried to the afterlife, so you don't have to regain all your stability. Souls are also the ones to have kandra affinities 

# Applying Kandra Forces To Tools/Weapons

Everything is made from kandra, including tools and weapons. Applying a kandra force to a tool or weapon means making the tool manipulate the kandra force. Since everything can manipulate kandra, even non-living things, tools can also manipulate kandra.

This is done by first learning a kandra force (for example: kandra-gravitational force). After learning your desired kandra force, using the kandra-gravitational force as example, you'll have good stability of the kandra-gravitational force. Now for you to make your desired object to control gravity, you have to give your stability to the object. You can give your stability to the object by doing "stability sharing" (which is like manipulating a kandra force, so like moving a muscle, need to be experienced), by doing stability sharing, you're losing your stability of the kandra-gravitational force and giving it to the object, for example, you had 30 Gstb over the kandra-gravitational force and you decide to give 10 kstb to an object, the object gains 10 kstb and you lose 10 kstb, leaving you with 29 Gstb. You can also do stability sharing with living things (souls) aswell

When objects manipulate a kandra force, energy from the object gets used and so does stability. Objects can't focus so stability needs to be refueled. But a way to bypass refueling is to make it have the factor that makes humans and other species focus, so the object constantly focuses. To do this, the kandra-stability force needs to learnt and applied to the object. An object's potential or kinetic energy gets used, since it doesn't have metabolic energy.

Applying these changes are usually a permanent changes but can be a temporary change.

There are tools that help with gaining stability with a kandra force, these tools don't need to be applied a kandra force but they most likely are

(Quick Note: it's theoretically possible for someone to have negative stability but it's practically impossible, it can happen from either a kandra glitch or artificially by using the kandra-stability force)

# More About Kandra

Kandra is kinda alive. It understands stuff, like abstract things like morals, ethics, ideologies, etc. It even knows that it's called by kandra. Worshipping kandra won't actually do anything as kandra doesn't need it and kandra won't start to favor you if you do.

Different universes made from kandra kind of has different personalities from one an another. EiS kandra mainly observes what's going on and occasionally helps. It recognised sentient robots to needing a kandra soul so kandra made a soul and gave every sentient robots kandra souls. So sentient robots are alive. It also creates soul when a species reproduces both in inlife and afterlife and assigns the soul to the new produced specimen.

Kandra isn't perfect, it sometimes make mistakes, "glitches" in reality, tho this happens very rarely and kandra tries to fix its mistake if it's dire.

The future doesn't exist, only the past and present. Future "exist" as a concept, the "future" is defined by the actions done in the present, it's not something set like fate or destiny. Meaning a choice made was not already pre-made, but entirely new. Future however can exist by making a future bubble by using a kandra force. This future bubble will set what will exactly happen in the future by the creator. It's like "fate" or "destiny" but in a region, or "bubble". Or the future could be made by going back in time. Tho this is incredibly hard and no one has achieved this by trying to control the kandra-time force

Kandra souls can technically be destroyed by using the kandra-soul force, but kandra always remakes the destroyed kandra soul, so a kandra soul can never truly be destroyed

I wanna make this clear. Kandra is **not** magic, it's science, or the science of EiS. It's physical and metaphysical, but not magic. Kandra **is** the physics, the science of EiS, not something separate.

# Soul Creation

Apart from Kandra creating souls, souls can be artificially made by learning the kandra-soul force. The kandra-soul force can also be use to assigns said souls to a body (even objects, like a box). These souls are called "**Artificial Kandra Souls**", "**Artificial Souls**" or just souls. There is no difference between a natural soul and a artificial soul other than one is made by kandra and other is made by humans or other species (which is also kandra). Affinities can be added to the kandra soul with the kandra-affinity force

# Outside The EiS Universe

As said, there is a multiverse that exists in space, each universe having its own reality

The EiS universe is finite, sphere-shaped. It does not expand, because dark energy doesn't exist, instead, it has something called the **"Dark Glue"** which keeps the universe together from contracting because of gravity. It doesn't interact with light aswell, hence the name "Dark Glue". There is no "death" of the EiS universe, so it's basically immortal. Things can also leave the EiS universe

Outside the EiS universe are different universes, and between those universe, there is space. The space between universe is very different than the space inside universes. To put simply, space outside universes have no physical or metaphysical laws, it's lawless, it has no laws of physics. But, the space also does nothing. It's just a void where realities are in

When a thing from the EiS universe leaves the EiS universe and enters into this lawless space, called the **"Outside Space"**, they will carry the EiS universe's laws with them, in like a small bubble. The size of this small bubble will be the size of the object itself, or it's mass, so when a human enters Outside Space, their EiS bubble will be the size of them

There is a way to increase this bubble or add the laws of the EiS universe in Outside Space. That's by using any kandra force. You can use any force to create a copy of the EiS reality in any point in Outside Space with the forces's specific properties.
